
                             Schnitzcells

  Software for Quantitative Analysis of Single-Cell Time-Lapse Microscopy

                             Release 1.1
                          November 22, 2005

I. Introduction

This software permits users to perform a quantitative analysis of
time-lapse (movies) of fluorescently-tagged proteins in living cells
constrained to grow in the focal plane of a microscope.  The analysis 
of the movies proceeds in four stages:

  1. Preparing for the analysis (specifying directories & analysis parameters)
  2. Segmenting individual movie frames to define cell boundaries
     2.a. Manually checking/correcting the cell segmentation
  3. Cell Tracking to associate individual cells' data across multiple frames
     and to construct a cell lineage tree (recognizing cell division events)
     3.b. Manually checking/correcting the cell tracking
  4. Collecting fluorescence intensity data over each cell's lifetime


II. Installation

The software is implemented as a collection of MATLAB scripts, and
designed to work within MATLAB version 7 SP2 on the Windows operating
system.  (Mac OS X and Linux should work as well, but are not
supported).

The MATLAB scripts are contained in muliple directories.  When using
the software for the first time the paths of these directories must be
added to one's MATLAB environment.  This can be done using the MATLAB 
GUI File->Set Path menu option, or using the MATLAB addpath command.
You should add the whole directory structure to the path.


III. Quick Start Usage

The software was designed to be very easy to use for the most common
experimental scenarios, but flexible enough to handle somewhat more
diverse experimental conditions.

Here is a quick summary of the series of commands necessary to perform 
analysis of an example movie.

  p = initschnitz('VNmovie-01','2005-04-03','e.coli','rootDir','D:\movies');
  p = segmoviephase(p);
  p = manualcheckseg(p);
  p = trackcomplete(p);
  p = schnitzedit(p);
  drawschnitzbaum(schnitzcells,4);
  [p,schnitzcells] = compileschnitz(p);
  plotschnitzme(schnitzcells,'mins','lengthMicrons',[],'k-');

In the above example, the movie name is 'VNmovie-01', which was collected 
on 2005-04-03, and the movie type is 'e.coli'.  The root "data"
directory 'D:\movies' will contain the results of movie analysis.

These are the MATLAB routines that most users are expected to execute,
and generally such user-level routines are located under the
schnitzcells package's analysis_routine subdirectory.  Each of these
user-level commands are described in greater detail in the Schnitzcell 
User's Manual.


IV. More Information

A detailed User's Manual is provided with this software distribution.
You should refer to this document to see additional usage examples and
to take advantage of features that permit greater control over your
time-lapse move analysis.
